>> Mike North: In this next section of
the course, we're going to work on getting
linting and code formatting
working throughout our repo.
It's something that we had in
the beginning state of our project and
we have since lost it, in part because
the prettier and the linting stuff is only
happening within the context of
our UI package at this point.
Right, we kind of left,
left the left those concerns there.
So we also want to take on some other
developer experience niceties.
So one of these is if we look
at one place where we're missing
a developer experience nicety
is if we pull up a component
that depends on something
from like seed models and
we command click on this,
we'll end up in a declaration file.
We're in the dist folder
right now of our dependency.
And if we really want to deliver on
the promise of the way you navigate code,
the way your tools work,
the way your scripts work, it's the same.
It's the same.
At the end of the day,
once we've converted this to a monorepo,
we had better be able to jump
to these source files and
be able to seamlessly step through and
navigate.
In particular, this is likely to be
a potential hazard because this,
especially with the building
out to modern modules,
it looks a lot like a TypeScript file,
like a TS file.
And it'd be very easy to kind of make
the mistake that you think you're editing
the source, but
you're editing the build output.
And you drive yourself crazy wondering,
why does my change keep
getting overwritten?
Why hasn't it taken effect?
So we're gonna address that too.
Then finally, because we're going to
be working with some config files
in this area, we're going to apply this
concept of TypeScript project references,
which will have each package
generating a build information file.
That will improve
the performance of our build,
that'll improve the performance
of our language server.
Because TypeScript will have a much richer
source of information in terms of what
has been changed since the last build,
what needs to be incrementally recompiled.
It won't be on a package by package basis,
it'll more be on a module by module basis.
We'll take a look at
the inside of these files and
it should make sense why this works so
well.
So first off, let's focus on prettier.
If we were to run this
command at the project root,
we should get this error prettier.
Plugins Felt is not found and
a reference to a file here,
which is a generated thing, so
that doesn't help us too much in the air.
But if we look at our prettierrc,
we can see, hey,
we've got this prettier-plugin-svelte.
So this is a cue that we have.
Like we haven't yet
pulled something that's kind of like
a project wide tool up to
the top of our monorepo.
So when you think about linting,
when you think about code formatting,
things like that, you generally want those
to be applied across your whole repo.
Now, it would have been fine if
we left prettierrc inside ui and
that's the only place we wanted
code formatting to happen.
That would have worked perfectly well too.
We would have only been able to run this
task when we're within that package.
But we want the benefits of a modern repo
and having the same code style applied
broadly throughout all of the packages
that we're authoring together.
So we're gonna go into
our ui package JSON.
Here it is.
And there is a prettier-plugin-svelte.
In fact, we can grab prettier and
take it out of here as well.
It's going to be running prettier
will be running at the project root.
It's not a dev dependency
of any one project anymore.
Once we do this and we can add those here.
There we go.
If I was using some
opinionated formatting here,
maybe we'd end up making
these more alphabetical.
Okay, now let's try this again.
Sorry.
We touched a package JSON,
therefore pnpm i and there we go.
We can see if you're looking closely,
it's probably more clear to me on my
screen than it is if
you're watching at home.
Some of these files you can
see unchanged is missing.
Next to some of them,
formatting was applied.
So now we're formatting in the models
package, in the server package in the ui.
We have sort of hoisted this tool up, so
it's now working at the monorepo level.
What we can do is create
a nice NPM script for this.
So instead of saying the way we
format across the monorepo is by
invoking the format script
on each Monorepo package,
we're going to replace this with something
that operates at the monorepo level and
it's going to look like
prettier write packages, any.
Any package.
Right.
And then either the file source or
tests and then any subfolder ts if
you copy from the workspace notes.
So this would be a basic version of this.
That'll get all of your source and tests.
If you go to the workspace notes I've got
a string here that you probably don't
want to figure out yourself.
That also will format the config files.
So we'll grab that and
we'll paste it here as well.
Getting the comma in the right place.
PNPM format and
it does basically the same thing.
Looks like some of those new files
that were picked up this time
didn't end up getting affected.
So here you can see this vitend file was
in the last invocation that was picked up,
but now we've got things that are not in
the source folder, like these down here.
So great.
Prettier formatting is
working across our monorep.